---
date: 2011/05/20 12:00:00
title: SQLAlchemy 0.7.0 Released
author: Mike B
---
The SQLAlchemy project is pleased to announce version **0.7.0** of SQLAlchemy,
the first production release within the 0.7 series.   0.7 represents the past
year's worth of development, streamlining APIs, adding new features, solidifying
the core and improving performance.   Key highlights of version 0.7 include:

* New event system applies a consistent and flexible approach to the task of 
  extending SQLAlchemy, both within the core and the ORM.   The previous system
  of ad-hoc "extension" and "listener" classes is replaced by a single 
  function ``event.listen()`` which can apply listeners to a wide variety of 
  hooks.   Read more at `Intro to events </docs/07/core/event.html>`_.
* A new extension allows easy creation of "hybrid" attributes, attributes that
  provide Python expression behavior at the instance level and SQL expression
  behavior at the declarative (class) level.  Read more at `Hybrid Attributes </docs/07/orm/extensions/hybrid.html>`_.
* A new system of building so-called "mutable" attributes, column-mapped values
  which can change their value in-place.   Detection of changes now uses
  change events and solves the previous issue of full unit-of-work scans
  for such attributes.  Read more at `Mutable Scalars </docs/07/orm/extensions/mutable.html>`_.
* Major speed improvements, including batching of INSERT statements when possible, 
  greatly reduced codepaths for many key operations.  Check out the RunSnakeRun diagrams
  at `A Tale of Three Profiles <http://techspot.zzzeek.org/2010/12/12/a-tale-of-three-profiles/>`_.
* C extensions, battle tested after a year of use in 0.6, now build by default 
  on install for CPython platforms.
* Pypy is fully supported.
* Dialect support for Psycopg2 on Python 3, Drizzle, pymysql added.
* Documentation and example updates, including a `modernized, declarative version
  of polymorphic associations </docs/07/orm/examples.html#examples-generic-associations>`_.
* Many, many core and ORM behavioral improvements.   See the almost-full list at
  `07Migration </trac/wiki/07Migration>`_.

Thanks to everyone who's contributed via code, bug reports, infrastructure support,
production testing.    SQLAlchemy 0.7.0 is available on the `download page </download.html>`_.
 

