---
date: 2013/10/26 15:41:00
title: SQLAlchemy 0.9.0b1 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 0.9.0b1 is now available.

This is the first beta release of the new 0.9 series, which features
a wide array of behavioral improvements and features.   It also includes
all relevant bugfixes that have been applied to the 0.8 and sometimes the
0.7 series as develoment has continued.   We strongly encourage users to
download and evaluate 0.9.0b1, already in use in production environments,
and to report back on issues promptly.

To get an overview of SQLAlchemy 0.9's new features, see the
`What's New in 0.9 </docs/09/changelog/migration_09.html>`_ document.
This document should also serve as a guide for those behavioral changes which
may require adjustments to existing applications.

Major highlights include:

* Runs on Python 2 and 3 with no 2to3 step needed.
* C extensions run on Python 3
* Major improvements to SQL rendering regarding ORM eager loading
* The event API is enhanced with the ability to remove listeners.
* Major improvements to composite attributes, association proxies
* New Query features including a rewritten "loader option" system with
  greater capabilities
* SQL expression language and schema improvements.

The release is being offered for download via Bitbucket files and not on
Pypi, so that it is not installed automatically for those users using ``pip``,
since it is still in beta.

Download SQLAlchemy 0.9.0b1 on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.




