---
date: 2014/02/13 15:41:00
title: SQLAlchemy Migrates Issues from Trac to Bitbucket
author: Mike B
---

The SQLAlchemy project is now using `Bitbucket <https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/sqlalchemy>`_
for all issue tracking and wiki pages.

SQLAlchemy began using Bitbucket some years ago for pull requests, and
then when the move to Git was made, Bitbucket became the originating point
for the git master, which remains mirrored on SQLAlchemy's host as well as
on Github.  However, the issue system has for SQLAlchemy's entire life remained
hosted on Trac.

A move from Trac to another system like Github or Bitbucket was not feasable
until Bitbucket added an advanced import/export feature which could maintain
the full history, timestamps, and user accounts of the imported issues.
When this feature was introduced, the SQLAlchemy project still was reluctant
to give up full control over its issue tracker, instead enabling full
user account tools and adding such features
as `tracvatar <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tracvatar/>`_ (used by the Fedora project!)
to improve the user
interface.  But ultimately spammers started abusing the system, and the spam
tools provided with Trac were failing to deter them in any way, and more generally
didn't seem to work at all; an alternate plugin was installed to provide captcha
support to the registration page, but spam accounts continued to register daily
despite it.   The account database in Trac amassed several hundred accounts,
mostly inactive, any number of which might also be spam accounts.   As the SQLAlchemy
project has no interest being in the business of maintaining user account
databases, the impetus to move became clear.   An additional advantage is that
the issue system is no longer throttled to crawlers,
who were also a nuisance on SQLAlchemy's very low power host.

After two weeks of effort to produce import/export tools as well as to
develop various utilities and workarounds for some issues encountered with
Bitbucket (most notably, that its system marks every issue and comment not owned
by you as spam after an import is done, meaning you have to un-mark them all),
the issue system has been moved entirely.  SQLAlchemy's host is now used
to serve the main website and for the Jenkins master (which is also non-public
to deter crawlers from slowing it down).

