---
date: 2015/03/13 15:41:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.0.0b1 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.0.0b1 is now available.

This is the first beta release in the new 1.0 series of SQLAlchemy.  Users
are encouraged to ensure that their ``pip`` installations are up-to-date, so
that version 1.0.0b1 will only install if explcitly specified using the
``--pre`` flag.

Release 1.0.0b1 features a large degree of internal rearchitecture, new
features, and bug fixes.    Key highlights include:

* **Improved Performance** - Function call counts are reduced in
  many areas across the library, including Core execution and result set
  formulation, ORM query construction,
  ORM result set fetching, mass object expiration, and
  ORM persistence.  The memory footprint of an ORM application is also
  greatly reduced by rolling out the use of ``__slots__`` across a wide
  array of internal structures.

* **New Performance Features** - for even more performance gains, new APIs
  are introduced to the ORM which can dramatically improve the performance
  of certain operations.   See features such
  as `Baked Queries </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#baked-queries>`_
  and  `Bulk Insert/Update API </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#new-session-bulk-insert-update-api>`_.
  New documentation and examples regarding performance are added as well,
  including the new `example performance suite </docs/latest/orm/examples.html#examples-performance>`_.

* **New Dialect Features** - In particular, the `Postgresql </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#dialect-improvements-and-changes-postgresql>`_,
  `MySQL </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#dialect-improvements-and-changes-mysql>`_, and `SQLite </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#dialect-improvements-and-changes-sqlite>`_ dialects have significant changes,
  in particular regarding improved datatype support and improved database reflection.

* **Dozens of other improvements** - Small but useful improvements like
  `removing the need for use_alter </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#the-use-alter-flag-on-foreignkeyconstraint-is-no-longer-needed>`_ and `autoload_with implies autoload=True </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html#autoload-with-now-implies-autoload-true>`_ are part
  of a long list of changes which can be seen in the `What's new in 1.0? </docs/latest/changelog/migration_10.html>`_
  document.

Users should carefully review the migration document as well as the `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_0_0b1>`_ to
note which behaviors and issues are affected.   We'd like to thank
the many contributors who helped with this release.

SQLAlchemy 1.0.0b1 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

