---
date: 2016/10/05 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.1.0 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.1.0 is now available.

Release 1.1.0 is the first official release in the 1.1 series, after
three beta releases.   The release represents the past eighteen months
of new feature development since version 1.0 was released.    The very long
list of new capabilities has a focus on Core, particularly
in the area of SQL syntaxes that are either solely supported by, or are
most commonly used on the Postgresql database, and development was greatly
assisted by a highly involved community working sometimes for many weeks
on new features.

Major new SQL features include:

* Common table expression (CTE) support for INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE

* Support for Postgresql upsert  - INSERT..ON CONFLICT (DO UPDATE | DO NOTHING)

* Support for MySQL's JSON type

* Support for RANGE and ROWS specification within window functions

* Support for the SQL LATERAL keyword support by Postgresql

* Support for TABLESAMPLE

* Core and ORM support for FULL OUTER JOIN

* Support for IS DISTINCT FROM and IS NOT DISTINCT FROM

* Support for WITHIN GROUP, ARRAY_AGG

* Support for FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED  / FOR NO KEY UPDATE / FOR KEY SHARE

There are also many new ORM features including a new "raise" loader that
prevents inadvertent lazy loading, new event hooks for Session objects that allow
tracking of all stages of an object's lifecycle, and new "mutable" collections
for columns that store serialized object structures.

Along with the new SQL syntax and ORM features are a wide array of ORM and
execution engine fixes and improvements, and an absolute minimum of behavioral changes that
run the risk of being surprising.  Nevertheless, as is always the case,
there are many areas where something that didn't work before will work
now; users should please carefully
review the full series of migration notes at
`What's new in 1.1? </docs/latest/changelog/migration_11.html>`_ to see the full
expanse of things that have changed.

The complete changelog for 1.1.0 as well as all the beta releases is at
`Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_1_0>`_;  we'd like to thank
the many contributors who helped with this release.


SQLAlchemy 1.1.0 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

