---
date: 2017/07/10 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.2.0b1 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.2.0b1 is now available.

This is the first beta for the 1.2 series of SQLAlchemy.  As is always
the case for beta releases, the release is available on Pypi, but only
installable when specifying the ``--pre`` flag with ``pip``.

Key highlights of version 1.2 include:

* **Connection pool pre-ping** - The connection pool now includes an optional
  "pre ping" feature that will test the "liveness" of a pooled connection   for
  every connection checkout, transparently recycling the DBAPI   connection if
  the database is disconnected.  This feature eliminates the need for the "pool
  recycle" flag   as well as the issue of errors raised when a pooled connection
  is   used after a database restart.

* **New eagerloading features** - an all-new eager loader called "selectin" is
  added.  This loader is similar to "subquery" eager loading, but foregoes
  embedding a complex subquery in favor of using a simple IN expression
  which uses the primary key values of the just-loaded objects to locate related
  rows.   This style of loading will perform dramatically better than
  "subquery" eager loading in many cases.

* **New polymorphic loading options** - A new "selectin" loader is also
  implemented for polymorphic inheritance hierarchies, which will load the
  extra table rows for subclasses in a result set all at once, without the
  need to use JOIN or "with_polymorphic".   New declarative options are added
  to allow per-subclass polymorphic loading configuration as well.

* **The IN operator now emits a simple expression for empty IN** - The long
  standing behavior of "empty in" resolving to a non-performant expression
  with a warning has been removed as default behavior; for an IN with no
  elements, a simple ``1 != 1`` expression is now used to evaluate to "false".

* **INSERT..ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE support in MySQL** - complementing the
  support for PostgreSQL "INSERT..ON CONFLICT" in 1.1, the MySQL dialect
  now supports the ON DUPLICATE KEY phrase.   Simple database-agnostic
  "merge" routines can now be composed against these two backends.

* **COMMENT Support** - thanks to a generous contribution, version 1.2
  can emit all necessary DDL as well as fully reflect SQL comments for tables
  and columns against the MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle backends.

* **SQL expression caching within ORM loaders** - the "lazyload" feature
  as well as the new "selectin" loading now use SQL expression caching using
  the "baked query" extension when emitting queries, removing a significant
  bulk of Python overhead from these very common operations.


Users should carefully review the `What's New in SQLAlchemy 1.2? </docs/latest/changelog/migration_12.html>`_ document as well as the `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_2_0b1>`_ to
note which behaviors and issues are affected.   We'd like to thank
the many contributors who helped with this release.

SQLAlchemy 1.2.0b1 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.
