---
date: 2017/10/13 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.2.0b3 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.2.0b3 is now available.

Release 1.2.0b3 is possibly the last beta release before 1.2.0 final is released.
The release of 1.2.0b3 was delayed by two major factors.   One was the release of
cx_Oracle 6.0, which is a complete rework of the underlying client library
for cx_Oracle that in turn required a lot of work on the SQLAlchemy side to accommodate,
which resulted in SQLAlchemy's cx_Oracle dialect itself being reworked and modernized
to make more complete use of patterns that were introduced in the 5.x series of
cx_Oracle.  The other was made possible by the advent of Microsoft SQL Server
for Linux, which has allowed SQL Server testing to finally be part of of
SQLAlchemy's continuous integration environment; as a result of this testing
effort the library and test suite have had many long-standing SQL Server issues
repaired.

On top of those two efforts were the usual stream of issue fixes that are
backported into the 1.1.x series as well as additional behavioral adjustments
new to the 1.2 series.

The `What's New in SQLAlchemy 1.2? </docs/latest/changelog/migration_12.html>`_ document as well as the `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_2_0b3>`_ will detail these changes as well as the changes
since the 1.1 series overall.   Users should carefully review these documents
when testing applications against the 1.2 series, including for the move from
1.2.0b2 to 1.2.0b3.  We'd like to thank
the many contributors who helped with this release.

SQLAlchemy 1.2.0b3 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.
