---
date: 2019/03/04 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.3.0 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.3.0 is now available.

Release 1.3.0 is the first official release in the 1.3 series, after
three beta releases.   The release represents the past fourteen months
of new feature development since version 1.2 was released.

The 1.3 series has focuses in the areas of ORM behavioral improvements,
Core behavioral improvements, and a large sweep of deprecations of old
behaviors and features that are no longer necessary for the modern Python
database development landscape.   With the upcoming end of Python 2
maintenance, release 1.3 begins to lean towards a longer
term plan for a simplified SQLAlchemy tailored to a Python 3 only world.

Major highlights include:

* An ORM relationship can now target an ``AliasedClass`` mapping, that is,
  a class that is essentially mapped to an alternative selectable like an alias
  or a subquery.   The relationship-to-aliased-class feature replaces the
  last use case for non-primary mappers with a much more capable pattern.

* The "expanding IN" feature added in 1.2, which allows a single bound
  parameter to be used with an IN list of arbitrary size on any database
  backend, now supports empty lists as well.  With the completion of this
  feature, the stage is set for "expanding IN" to be the default behavior
  for IN expressions in subsequent feature releases.

* A large series of improvements to the association proxy extension.

* Major behavioral improvements to the loader options system, including
  more use cases supported and much better error messages

* Support for SQLite JSON persistence and expression operations via the
  base ``JSON`` datatype.

Overall, most changes are fully backwards compatible with a SQLAlchemy 1.2
application, with the exception of the hard removal of the long-deprecated
automatic coercion of SQL phrases into text (see `Coercion of string SQL
fragments to text() fully removed
<http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/changelog/migration_13.html#coercion-of-string-sql-fragments-to-text-fully-removed>`_).
Users should please carefully review the full series of migration notes at
`What's new in 1.3? </docs/latest/changelog/migration_13.html>`_ to see the full
expanse of things that have changed and should always fully test existing
applications against the 1.3 series before promoting to production.

The complete changelog for 1.3.0 as well as all the beta releases is at
`Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_3_0>`_;  we'd like to thank
the many contributors who helped with this release.


SQLAlchemy 1.3.0 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

