---
date: 2020/11/02 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.4.0b1 Released
author: Mike B
---

The first beta release of the SQLAlchemy 1.4 series, 1.4.0b1, is now available.

Release 1.4.0b1 is the culmination of nearly 18 months of effort to envision
and create a newly modernized and capable SQLAlchemy, containing the widest
range of changes in many years.    The first stop along the way to
**SQLAlchemy 2.0**, release 1.4 intends to provide a gradual introduction
of a newly revised and simplified way of working with both Core and ORM.
A combination of major API refinements and capabilities
hopes to provide a toolkit that is well suited towards the modern direction
of the Python programming language and its associated communities.

Top level changes include:

* A simpler and more consistent way to work with transactions, connections
  and ORM Sessions with unified patterns of use across Core and ORM.

* The ``select()`` construct is highly refined and now serves as the universal
  way to create SELECT statements across Core and ORM; the new ``Result`` object
  unifies how results are handled across both components and adds a great
  many capabilities.

* Transparent SQL-caching is now present in all cases, greatly reducing
  the latency to generate SQL for a persistently running application, including
  the majority of ORM-related SQL generation work; the previous extension-based
  approach to SQL caching is no longer needed

* Python ``asyncio`` support is now fully integrated for both Core **and**
  ORM, to provide one of the first fully capable Python object relational
  mappers for asyncio

* New mapper configuration paradigms unify both Declarative and "classical"
  mapping forms, adds support for Python dataclasses and others.

The 1.4 series serves as the migration gateway for applications to be compatible
with the to-be-developed SQLAlchemy 2.0 release, which will move to Python 3
only and standardize completely on the new APIs and usage paradigms.

The ultimate goal of the 1.4 / 2.0 series is to make SQLAlchemy
**easier to learn**, **more consistent** and **more reliable**.

A huge number of contributors as well as our core development team has helped
tremendously in getting us to the first beta and everyone deserves our
deepest thanks and gratitude.

The migration guide for SQLAlchemy 1.4 is the best place to start in order
to get an overview of what's happening:  `What's New in 1.4? </docs/14/changelog/migration_14.html>`_.   The complete changelog is at
`Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_4_0b1>`_.

SQLAlchemy 1.4.0b1 by naming convention is a beta release, so only installs
with pip if the ``--pre`` flag is included.   Links to pypi for
SQLAlchemy 1.4.0b1 are available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.
