---
date: 2021/03/15 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.4.0 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 1.4.0 is now available.

After three beta releases in the 1.4 series, **Release 1.4.0** is finally
available.   This is the most extensive release for SQLAlchemy in at least
ten years, featuring a major rethink of the most prominent APIs in Core
and ORM, vastly revised internals, and a wide range of significant new
features and capabilities.

SQLAlchemy 1.4 establishes itself as the starting point for the
**SQLAlchemy 2.0** project, which will move fully to Python 3 only
as well as finalize the new APIs introduced in release 1.4.0.

The topmost highlights of SQLAlchemy 1.4.0 include:

* The approach used to generate SELECT and other SQL statements for both Core
  and ORM is now **unified** around a revised and more-capable ``select()``
  construct, so that SQL queries targeted to either a Core or ORM context are
  now composed using the same APIs and patterns. The ``Session.execute()`` and
  ``Connection.execute()`` methods have been aligned so that the transition
  between Core and ORM queries and result sets are seamless, with both systems
  behaving as similarly as is practical to each other. A new emphasis on
  explicitness and unambiguous consistency intends to allow both learning and
  using SQLAlchemy to be more straightforward, while also supporting new Python
  paradigms such as asyncio and PEP-484 typing.

* A revised Declarative mapping system which provides support for many new
  mapping paradigms, including mapping classes using decorators instead of base
  classes, explicit support for Python ``dataclasses``, and "imperative
  mappings" which are are an improved version of classical ``mapper()``
  operations that integrate with the Declarative class registry.

* Universal and fully transparent caching of SQL compilation for both Core and
  ORM. This replaces the "baked query cache" system of previous releases that
  provided an optional SQL caching system for the ORM, with a new approach that
  is fully transparent and enabled for the vast majority of DML and DQL
  statements across both Core and ORM. This system caches not only the
  immediate SQL string for a statement but also its associated
  result-processing infrastructure that is used to generate new rows and ORM
  object instances for each query.

* A newly revised transactional model for both the Core ``Engine`` as well as
  the ORM ``Session`` which is simpler to work with, eliminates legacy APIs
  that have become confusing, and operates in a more consistent fashion than
  before. The new transactional model, which will be the only model in
  SQLAlchemy 2.0, can be enabled fully under 1.4 by passing the ``future=True``
  flag to the ``create_engine()`` function as well as the ``Session()``
  constructor.

* Complete support for Python ``asyncio`` for both Core and ORM. This new
  system leverages the ``greenlet`` context-switching library to adapt the
  entirety of SQLAlchemy to be usable behind a very thin ``asyncio`` front-end
  while operating directly against ``asyncio`` database drivers within
  the asyncio event loop, with no need for thread executors.  Support for
  ``asyncpg`` and ``aiomysql`` is included so far with more drivers in
  development.

* Vastly improved ORM querying extensibility, using new hooks and options
  including the ``SessionEvents.do_orm_execute()`` hook and the
  ``with_loader_criteria()`` function which together can reliably and predictably
  intercept and modify all ORM queries with additional criteria;
  ``do_orm_execute()`` itself proves its worth by now being the only hook
  required to implement both the "horizontal sharding" (multiplexing a single
  query among many databases) and the "dogpile
  caching" (pre-empting queries with a cached ``Result`` object) examples.

* Native support for **PEP-484** and **Mypy** is now underway, with the first
  alpha version of an all new Mypy plugin included which operates with a newly
  published stubs library ``sqlalchemy2-stubs``.

Release 1.4 would not have been possible without the help of hundreds of
contributors as well as our recently expanded team of dedicated maintainers; we
would like to give **HUGE** thanks to Federico Caselli, Gord Thompson, Jonathan
Vanasco, and Ramon Williams for their massive efforts in fielding hundreds of
issues and working to implement major new features, as well as our frequent
user-support contributors including Alex Grönholm and Simon King.

For users migrating from 1.3, the first stop is the
`What's New in 1.4? <https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/changelog/migration_14.html>`_
document which will provide an overview of how to get started with
SQLAlchemy 1.4.

The complete changelog for 1.4.0 as well as all the beta releases is at
`Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_4_0>`_.

SQLAlchemy 1.4.0 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

