---
date: 2021/04/02 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.4.5 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy 1.4.5 is now available.

Release 1.4.5 includes the next round of mostly small regressions and bug fixes
for the 1.4 series. The most major change in this release is that the
"statement caching" feature has been changed to be "opt in" for third party
dialects, after the identification of some patterns in some dialects that are
not compatible with statement caching. Third party dialects that want to add
support for statement caching should set the ``supports_statement_cache`` flag
on each dialect subclass that they implement, and then test that SQL statements
which include literal Python values, particularly those used for LIMIT/OFFSET,
are rendered correctly as they change across executions for the same statement.
See the changelog for further details.

The above issue was also identified in the Oracle dialect, so all Oracle
installations using the 1.4 series should upgrade to 1.4.5.

Support for the Mypy plugin is still ongoing; while there are some Mypy fixes
in this release, there are still additional known issues which will be resolved
in upcoming releases.   The ``sqlalchemy2-stubs`` package is also undergoing
rapid development and should be improving significantly in the coming weeks.

Huge thanks to our userbase and core development team for working to make
release 1.4.5 possible.

The complete changelog for 1.4.5 is at `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_4_5>`_.

SQLAlchemy 1.4.5 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.
