---
date: 2021/04/15 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 1.4.8 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy 1.4.8 is now available.

Release 1.4.8 includes four regression fixes, two of them minor, one more
significant issue regarding the fairly new ``with_expression()`` feature, and
finally a critical fix for the SQL Server dialect involving LIMIT/OFFSET
rendering; all SQL Server users on the 1.4 series should ensure 1.4.8 or
greater is installed.

The additional changes in release 1.4.8 are fixes for new 1.4 features and
behaviors, including several for the Mypy plugin which continues to be under
development; Mypy integration is an extremely complicated task and we are
fortunate to have additional developers continuing to improve this extension
as well as developing the new ``sqlalchemy2-stubs`` package.

The 1.4 series has had an incredible eight releases within less than a one
month period; contrast to the 1.3 series, which from its 1.3.0 release had only
three releases total within the same time period. The unusual cadence of the
1.4 series is due to the very fundamental and far ranging architectural changes
that have taken place for this series, brought on by the overall "SQLAlchemy
2.0" project and its focus on making something of a fresh start from over a
decade of older architectural patterns, as well as the introduction of native
caching support for all SQL constructs and similar features which are
essentially "game changer" kinds of changes. The SQLAlchemy userbase is now
very broad, so we have benefitted from rapid reporting of a significant range
of edge case regressions that for a new project would have taken months if not
years to identify. To date, all of the regression fixes have been of the "one
liner" variety (literally in most cases, figuratively in a few others ;) ),
meaning no changes to any architectural approaches have been necessary, only
the correct application of newer internal patterns in various areas that were
missed by the existing tests (which are of course expanded each time to
exercise each new identified use case).

We would like to encourage users to take the leap and work through the new
1.4/2.0
`Unified Tutorial <https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/tutorial/index.html>`_,
which describes SQLAlchemy from top to bottom all at once, and hopes to provide
a contextual foundation for what's needed to jump into the reference
documentation.

We'd like to extend a huge thanks to our userbase for helping us
solidify the 1.4 series as well as the ever growing base of SQLAlchemy
core developers and regular contributors who are making a huge difference.

The complete changelog for 1.4.8 is at `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_1_4_8>`_.

SQLAlchemy 1.4.8 is available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

