---
date: 2026/01/21 15:45:02
title: SQLAlchemy 2.1.0b1 Released
author: Mike
---

The first beta release of the **SQLAlchemy 2.1** series is now available.

Nearly two years in development, the 2.1 series builds upon the new Python
typing-oriented architecture of SQLAlchemy 2.0, introducing a range of
enhancements and new capabilities across both Core and ORM components, with an
emphasis on newer Python idioms such as dataclasses, improved pep-484 typing,
template strings, and continued accommodations for Python free threading.

Key improvements in SQLAlchemy 2.1 include:

* **Python 3.14 Template String Support** - A new ``tstring()`` construct
  works similarly to the ``text()`` construct, but works with the new
  ``t''`` syntax added in Python 3.14+, allowing for automatic generation
  of bound parameters from a fully inline SQL string expression.

* **CREATE VIEW and CREATE TABLE AS Support** - New DDL constructs enable
  creation of views and table-as-select operations

* **pep-646 typing for SQL SELECT statements, result sets, rows** - The ``Tuple[]``
  seen in type annotations for selectable statements and results has been
  replaced by the use of pep-646 ``Unpack`` directly, representing heterogeneous
  rows and supporting constructs directly without the need to manually
  unpack results from a tuple for typing of individual unpacked values to work.

* **Refined Dataclass Mapping** - ORM mapped dataclasses no longer populate
  implicit defaults in ``__dict__``, resolving workflow issues where foreign
  key values would incorrectly override relationship attributes

* **Default driver updates for PostgreSQL, Oracle** - The default driver for
  ``postgresql://`` URLs is now ``psycopg``, replacing ``psycopg2``, and the
  default driver for ``oracle://`` URLs is now ``oracledb``, replacing
  ``cx_oracle``.  This is the first release in SQLAlchemy's history to revise
  these default drivers.

* **Support for monotonic server side functions such as PostgreSQL's uuidv7()
  in batched INSERTs** - SQLAlchemy's "insertmanyvalues" feature introduced
  in version 2.0 allowed dramatic improvements for INSERT statements as used
  by the ORM, when primary key values needed to be fetched from newly inserted
  rows without executing row-at-a-time.   Release 2.1 adds support for the use
  of monotonically increasing server side functions to be integrated within
  this system, with PG's uuidv7() construct as the current example.

* **Greenlet is a fully optional dependency** - SQLAlchemy's asyncio support
  in version 2.1 remains dependent on greenlet to switch between asyncio and
  synchronous internal logic.   However, as greenlet continues to have sporadic
  compatibility issues when new Python versions are released, it no longer
  installs automatically and must be installed separately, typically using the
  ``sqlalchemy[asyncio]`` target.   This change also supports Python free
  threading, as greenlet as of this writing is not yet compatible with
  free-threaded Python builds

SQLAlchemy 2.1 includes **over 90 individual documented changes**, so be sure
to check out not just the `What's New in SQLAlchemy 2.1?
<https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/21/changelog/migration_21.html>`_ migration
guide, but the detailed changelog at `Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_2_1_0b1>`_
as well.

SQLAlchemy 2.1.0b1 by naming convention is a beta release, so only installs
with pip if the ``--pre`` flag is included. Links to pypi for
SQLAlchemy 2.1.0b1 are available on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.
