---
date: 2010/04/18 12:00:00
title: SQLAlchemy 0.6 Released
---
SQLAlchemy 0.6 is now released.   This release is the culmination of well over a year
of effort towards restructuring and enhancements.   Highlights of SQLAlchemy 0.6 include:

* Support for Python 2.4+, Python 3, and Jython
* Decouping of DBAPI adapters and database dialects allow any number of DBAPIs to be 
  cleanly supported.
* Support for Sybase, mxODBC, pg8000, py-postgresql, OurSQL, 
  MySQL-Connector-Python, zxjdbc is added, including new options 
  and capabilities for many dialects (see the 
  <a href="/docs/dbengine.html?highlight=engines#supported-databases">compatibility chart</a>).
* Enhancements to "eager loading", including a new "subquery" eagerload that loads all collections
  using a maximally efficient query-per-relationship scheme.
* An entirely new unit of work system which runs more effectively and simply, using less memory and
  CPU.
* A flexible SQL compiler and execution system, now supporting RETURNING clauses 
  when available, clause constructs for DDL elements (i.e. CREATE
  TABLE) and type objects, stricter SQL standard compliance where
  needed, and an extension system allowing the creation of new SQL
  constructs and open-ended extension to those provided.

* Query result caching capability, including an example illustrating integration with Beaker.

SQLAlchemy 0.6 has already been in production usage for several months and has been tested by hundreds.
Be sure to review the full list of whats new at <a href="/trac/wiki/06Migration">06Migration</a>.
