---
date: 2013/03/09 19:24:00
title: SQLAlchemy 0.8.0 Released
author: Mike B
---

SQLAlchemy release 0.8.0 final is now available.

This release now sets 0.8 as the official production series of
SQLAlchemy, following two beta releases.

Version 0.8 marks the most consistent, extensible
and performant version of SQLAlchemy to date.   The development
cycle for 0.8 has been particularly long, starting in April of
2012 with a rewrite of the internals of the ``relationship()``
construct, followed by the addition of a significant
amount of new functionality regarding "polymorphic" querying,
and later into a major upgrade to the typing system, including
an extensible operator system and type-specific SQL expression support.

Some major new features include:

* `New Relationship Features </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#rewritten-relationship-mechanics>`_

* New Polymorphic Features - `with_polymorphic() </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#new-with-polymorphic-feature-can-be-used-anywhere>`_ and `of_type() </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#of-type-works-with-alias-with-polymorphic-any-has-joinedload-subqueryload-contains-eager>`_

* `New Runtime Inspection System </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#new-class-object-inspection-system>`_

* `Extensible Operator System </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#fully-extensible-type-level-operator-support-in-core>`_

* `HSTORE Support </docs/changelog/migration_08.html#postgresql-hstore-type>`_

In addition, a new API for external dialects, along with an associated
test suite, allows third-party dialects to be organized and tested in a
consistent manner.  Several new or updated
SQLAlchemy dialects make use of this system, most notably an all new version of
`IBM DB2 for SQLAlchemy <http://code.google.com/p/ibm-db/wiki/README>`_ as well as
`sqlalchemy-akiban <https://github.com/zzzeek/sqlalchemy_akiban>`_.

Beyond the major new additions, SQLAlchemy internals and tests continue to be
improved and simplified.   Long functions and classes have been broken out
into compositions of small functions, which are easier to understand
as well as to unit test; tests themselves are being moved from long lists
of assertions within a single test into small units each containing a single
assertion, with an emphasis on testing smaller units of functionality more
exhaustively.  The test suite has now surpassed 5000 individual tests, which are run
via continuous integration against a variety
of Python platforms and DBAPI implementations using on-demand Amazon EC2 instances.
Coverage is also high:  ``sqlalchemy.orm`` is at 95%, ``sqlalchemy.sql``
is at 94%, ``sqlalchemy.ext.declarative`` is at 99%.

For a full overview of major features and behavioral changes in SQLAlchemy,
refer to the `What's New? </docs/08/changelog/migration_08.html>`_ document.  For a detailed
list of changes in 0.8 and throughout the 0.8 series, refer to the
`Changelog </changelog/CHANGES_0_8_0>`_.

SQLAlchemy 0.8.0 is available for download on the `Download Page </download.html>`_.

