---
date: 2013/05/25 19:54:00
title: SQLAlchemy Migrated to Git
author: Mike B
---

The SQLAlchemy source repository has been migrated to Git.

There are now twin repository mirrors for SQLAlchemy hosted
at `Bitbucket <https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/sqlalchemy>`_
and `Github <https://github.com/zzzeek/sqlalchemy>`_.

Rationale for the migration includes the following:

* Git manages the size of the repository more efficiently; while
  the Mercurial repository has been approaching 50M in size,
  the Git repository is only 17M.

* Git allows for lightweight, temporary feature branches
  which can be freely renamed or deleted, including that dead branches
  can be pruned of their changesets.   The Mercurial repository
  had filled up with several dozen development branches, some
  abandoned, which while they could be hidden via "close", could
  never be removed.   While Mercurial supports part of Git's functionality
  via the "bookmarks" extension, users typically are unaware of this
  and continue to create unwieldy branches.  Bookmarks don't solve
  the issue of removing unused changesets in any case.  Feature branches
  in Mercurial typically had to proceed in separate clones to
  allow for the possibility of abandonment without clogging up
  the main repository.

* While Mercurial has various extensions which emulate advanced Git
  features like "rebase" and "collapse", manipulation of history
  for the purposes of collapsing changesets or manipulating branches
  is a first class and widely used feature in Git.

* Largely due to the popularity of Github, Git has achieved a much
  higher userbase, to the degree where we regularly have users
  requesting us to move to Git so they can provide pull requests.

SQLAlchemy's issue repository will remain hosted on Trac; while a
Git repository can be mirrored in any number of places, an issue
repository cannot (for now!  Can someone please create a distributed issue
tracker?  Should be pretty doable, though getting Github/Bitbucket
to use it, not so much...), so SQLAlchemy's long history of
issue discussion remains maintained directly by the project.

While we are favoring Bitbucket as the location of the "primary"
push repository, users who wish to contribute should feel free
to provide pull requests from either Bitbucket or Github; we should
be able to accommodate both.

The SQLAlchemy Mercurial repository at http://hg.sqlalchemy.org/ will
remain up for some period of time until we observe that requests have
fallen off - note that this repository is not being mirrored from Git,
as the repository would need to be recreated with bookmarks instead
of branches which require recreating the entire revision history.



